README.md, before:

Welcome to panda
======

[panda](http://github.com/commaai/panda) is the nicest universal car interface ever.

<a href="https://panda.comma.ai"><img src="https://github.com/commaai/panda/blob/master/panda.png">

<img src="https://github.com/commaai/panda/blob/master/buy.png"></a>

It supports 3x CAN, 2x LIN, and 1x GMLAN. It also charges a phone. On the computer side, it has both USB and Wi-Fi.

It uses an [STM32F413](http://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers/stm32f413-423.html?querycriteria=productId=LN2004) for low level stuff and an [ESP8266](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ESP8266) for Wi-Fi. They are connected over high speed SPI, so the panda is actually capable of dumping the full contents of the busses over Wi-Fi, unlike every other dongle on amazon. ELM327 is weak, panda is strong.

It is 2nd gen hardware, reusing code and parts from the [NEO](https://github.com/commaai/neo) interface board.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/commaai/panda.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/commaai/panda)

Usage
------

To install the library:
```
# pip install pandacan
```

See [this class](https://github.com/commaai/panda/blob/master/python/__init__.py#L80) for how to interact with the panda.

For example, to receive CAN messages:
```
>>> from panda import Panda
>>> panda = Panda()
>>> panda.can_recv()
```
And to send one on bus 0:
```
>>> panda.can_send(0x1aa, "message", 0)
```
More examples coming soon

Software interface support
------

As a universal car interface, it should support every reasonable software interface.

- User space ([done](https://github.com/commaai/panda/tree/master/python))
- socketcan in kernel ([alpha](https://github.com/commaai/panda/tree/master/drivers/linux))
- ELM327 ([done](https://github.com/commaai/panda/blob/master/boardesp/elm327.c))
- Windows J2534 ([done](https://github.com/commaai/panda/tree/master/drivers/windows))

Directory structure
------

- board      -- Code that runs on the STM32
- boardesp   -- Code that runs on the ESP8266
- drivers    -- Drivers (not needed for use with python)
- python     -- Python userspace library for interfacing with the panda
- tests      -- Tests and helper programs for panda

Programming (over USB)
------

[Programming the Board (STM32)](board/README.md)

[Programming the ESP](boardesp/README.md)


Debugging
------

To print out the serial console from the STM32, run tests/debug_console.py

To print out the serial console from the ESP8266, run PORT=1 tests/debug_console.py

Safety Model
------

When a panda powers up, by default it's in "SAFETY_NOOUTPUT" mode. While in no output mode, the buses are also forced to be silent. In order to send messages, you have to select a safety mode. Currently, setting safety modes is only supported over USB.

Safety modes can also optionally support "controls_allowed", which allows or blocks a subset of messages based on a piece of state in the board.

Hardware
------

Check out the hardware [guide](https://github.com/commaai/panda/blob/master/docs/guide.pdf)

Licensing
------

panda software is released under the MIT license unless otherwise specified.

Commit message:

Squashed 'panda/' changes from 3125232..2253dd3
2253dd3 fix volt ign detect
3b299d7 add ignition and refactor
af9af6d Merge pull request #110 from Jamezz/volt
13e850e more correct
f295063 add new define to tests
fec9758 gate that with debug
5516ebf one more ifdef
cac7b31 only panda has float
938d474 fpu enable
ffbf0c7 cleaner
de30f27 Revert "need f to not be double"
4142acf need f to not be double
3eb15c8 refactor to share code
a4c8b64 change to O2 to fix make recover
711fd11 Enable compiler optimizations, fix things it breaks
2e6f774 block IPAS in main toyota safety mode
e7a2b3a add ipas tests
894572c fix tests
367c9ad add safety toyota ipas
95919b9 Bounty: panda high quality CAN autobaud (#96)
6557cd2 Toyota Safety: allow controls only on rising edge of cruise_engaged
02c1ddf Revert "added steer override check when IPAS is in control (#106)"
9f925ba Fix the merge mess
23d3833 Merge from comma upstream
a0cc51a Undo safety mode override
ea1c1dc make wlan interface name generic
6dbd8c9 Implement WebUSB and upgrade WinUSB to 2.0 (#107)
4fc83a5 Add safety hook for ignition and have GM use gear selector to determine ignition
52b2ac0 switch from travis to circleci
48e2374 build panda esp image
065572a circleci build stm image
7a1f319 add panda python package test and fix safety test
021dde7 move saftey test helper files into safety folder
ce0545f add ci files
6a3307c no LIN over ELM
7d21acb added steer override check when IPAS is in control (#106)
1c88caf Safety code testing (#104)
f4efd1f Merge pull request #101 from adhintz/master
c02618b Merge pull request #102 from quillford/master
1ba5f8a added link to wiki for user scripts
de2b19e add support for multiple buses to can_unique and can_bittransition output data in sorted order.

git-subtree-dir: panda
git-subtree-split: 2253dd3c48e21abb82fe161d6f58237490111206

old-commit-hash: e6e6ad2e1fd1c0bed381a4cbabf8d8afd9f64716
old-commit-hash: 96fad97208b604e67b9c1b6538fbd7fa89e7361e

README.md, after:

Welcome to panda
======

[panda](http://github.com/commaai/panda) is the nicest universal car interface ever.

<a href="https://panda.comma.ai"><img src="https://github.com/commaai/panda/blob/master/panda.png">

<img src="https://github.com/commaai/panda/blob/master/buy.png"></a>

It supports 3x CAN, 2x LIN, and 1x GMLAN. It also charges a phone. On the computer side, it has both USB and Wi-Fi.

It uses an [STM32F413](http://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers/stm32f413-423.html?querycriteria=productId=LN2004) for low level stuff and an [ESP8266](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ESP8266) for Wi-Fi. They are connected over high speed SPI, so the panda is actually capable of dumping the full contents of the busses over Wi-Fi, unlike every other dongle on amazon. ELM327 is weak, panda is strong.

It is 2nd gen hardware, reusing code and parts from the [NEO](https://github.com/commaai/neo) interface board.

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/commaai/panda.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/commaai/panda)

Usage
------

To install the library:
```
# pip install pandacan
```

See [this class](https://github.com/commaai/panda/blob/master/python/__init__.py#L80) for how to interact with the panda.

For example, to receive CAN messages:
```
>>> from panda import Panda
>>> panda = Panda()
>>> panda.can_recv()
```
And to send one on bus 0:
```
>>> panda.can_send(0x1aa, "message", 0)
```
Find user made scripts on the [wiki](https://community.comma.ai/wiki/index.php/Panda_scripts)

Software interface support
------

As a universal car interface, it should support every reasonable software interface.

- User space ([done](https://github.com/commaai/panda/tree/master/python))
- socketcan in kernel ([alpha](https://github.com/commaai/panda/tree/master/drivers/linux))
- ELM327 ([done](https://github.com/commaai/panda/blob/master/boardesp/elm327.c))
- Windows J2534 ([done](https://github.com/commaai/panda/tree/master/drivers/windows))

Directory structure
------

- board      -- Code that runs on the STM32
- boardesp   -- Code that runs on the ESP8266
- drivers    -- Drivers (not needed for use with python)
- python     -- Python userspace library for interfacing with the panda
- tests      -- Tests and helper programs for panda

Programming (over USB)
------

[Programming the Board (STM32)](board/README.md)

[Programming the ESP](boardesp/README.md)


Debugging
------

To print out the serial console from the STM32, run tests/debug_console.py

To print out the serial console from the ESP8266, run PORT=1 tests/debug_console.py

Safety Model
------

When a panda powers up, by default it's in "SAFETY_NOOUTPUT" mode. While in no output mode, the buses are also forced to be silent. In order to send messages, you have to select a safety mode. Currently, setting safety modes is only supported over USB.

Safety modes can also optionally support "controls_allowed", which allows or blocks a subset of messages based on a piece of state in the board.

Hardware
------

Check out the hardware [guide](https://github.com/commaai/panda/blob/master/docs/guide.pdf)

Licensing
------

panda software is released under the MIT license unless otherwise specified.
