tools/cabana/README.md, before:

# Cabana

<img src="https://cabana.comma.ai/img/cabana.jpg" width="640" height="267" />

Cabana is a tool developed to view raw CAN data. One use for this is creating and editing [CAN Dictionaries](http://socialledge.com/sjsu/index.php/DBC_Format) (DBC files), and the tool provides direct integration with [commaai/opendbc](https://github.com/commaai/opendbc) (a collection of DBC files), allowing you to load the DBC files direct from source, and save to your fork. In addition, you can load routes from [comma connect](https://connect.comma.ai).

## Usage Instructions

```bash
$ ./cabana -h
Usage: ./cabana [options] route

Options:
  -h, --help             Displays this help.
  --demo                 use a demo route instead of providing your own
  --qcam                 load qcamera
  --ecam                 load wide road camera
  --stream               read can messages from live streaming
  --zmq <zmq>            the ip address on which to receive zmq messages
  --data_dir <data_dir>  local directory with routes
  --no-vipc              do not output video
  --dbc <dbc>            dbc file to open

Arguments:
  route                  the drive to replay. find your drives at
                         connect.comma.ai
```

See [openpilot wiki](https://github.com/commaai/openpilot/wiki/Cabana)

Commit message:

cabana: support direct streaming from panda over USB (#27936)
* refactor livestream into devicestream

* add panda stream

* unused

* whitespace

* move logging to base class

* add cmdline args

* Update selfdrive/boardd/boardd.cc

---------

Co-authored-by: Adeeb Shihadeh <adeebshihadeh@gmail.com>
old-commit-hash: 2a981f553162ff41dd50ed6921b90ac512efa3d2

tools/cabana/README.md, after:

# Cabana

<img src="https://cabana.comma.ai/img/cabana.jpg" width="640" height="267" />

Cabana is a tool developed to view raw CAN data. One use for this is creating and editing [CAN Dictionaries](http://socialledge.com/sjsu/index.php/DBC_Format) (DBC files), and the tool provides direct integration with [commaai/opendbc](https://github.com/commaai/opendbc) (a collection of DBC files), allowing you to load the DBC files direct from source, and save to your fork. In addition, you can load routes from [comma connect](https://connect.comma.ai).

## Usage Instructions

```bash
$ ./cabana -h
Usage: ./cabana [options] route

Options:
  -h, --help                     Displays help on commandline options.
  --help-all                     Displays help including Qt specific options.
  --demo                         use a demo route instead of providing your own
  --qcam                         load qcamera
  --ecam                         load wide road camera
  --stream                       read can messages from live streaming
  --panda                        read can messages from panda
  --panda-serial <panda-serial>  read can messages from panda with given serial
  --zmq <zmq>                    the ip address on which to receive zmq
                                 messages
  --data_dir <data_dir>          local directory with routes
  --no-vipc                      do not output video
  --dbc <dbc>                    dbc file to open

Arguments:
  route                          the drive to replay. find your drives at
                                 connect.comma.ai
```

See [openpilot wiki](https://github.com/commaai/openpilot/wiki/Cabana)
