tools/gpstest/README.md, before:

# GPS test setup

# Usage
```
# replaying a static location
./gpstest.sh -e <ephemeris file> -s <static location>

# replaying a prerecorded route (NMEA cvs file)
./gpstest.sh -e <ephemeris file> -d <dynamic location>
```

If `-e` is not provided the latest ephemeris file will be downloaded from
https://cddis.nasa.gov/archive/gnss/data/daily/20xx/brdc/.
(TODO: add auto downloader)

# Hardware Setup

* [LimeSDR USB](https://wiki.myriadrf.org/LimeSDR-USB)
* Asus AX58BT antenna

# Software Setup
* https://github.com/myriadrf/LimeSuite
To communicate with LimeSDR the LimeSuite is needed it abstracts the direct
communication. It also contains examples for a quick start.

The latest stable version (22.09) does not have the corresponding firmware
download available at https://downloads.myriadrf.org/project/limesuite. Therefore
version 20.10 was chosen.

* https://github.com/osqzss/LimeGPS
Built on top of LimeSuite (libLimeSuite.so.20.10-1), generates the GPS signal.

```
./LimeGPS -e <ephemeris file> -l <location coordinates>

# Example
./LimeGPS -e /pathTo/brdc2660.22n -l 47.202028,15.740394,100
```

Commit message:

GPS test station first unittests (#25950)
* init gps test

* gps test v1

* add static signal gen script

* update readme

* remove LD_PRELOAD by using rpath, update values after testing

* remove LD_PRELOAD

* update fuzzy testing

* address comments

* cleanup

Co-authored-by: Kurt Nistelberger <kurt.nistelberger@gmail.com>
old-commit-hash: 54d667aa155a795ff3ee4953ce508d64945fdac3

tools/gpstest/README.md, after:

# GPS test setup
Testing the GPS receiver using GPS spoofing. At the moment only
static location relpay is supported.

# Usage
```
# on host, start gps signal simulation
./run_static_lime.py
```

`run_static_lime.py` downloads the latest ephemeris file from
https://cddis.nasa.gov/archive/gnss/data/daily/20xx/brdc/.


# Hardware Setup
* [LimeSDR USB](https://wiki.myriadrf.org/LimeSDR-USB)
* Asus AX58BT antenna

# Software Setup
* https://github.com/myriadrf/LimeSuite
To communicate with LimeSDR the LimeSuite is needed it abstracts the direct
communication. It also contains examples for a quick start.

The latest stable version (22.09) does not have the corresponding firmware
download available at https://downloads.myriadrf.org/project/limesuite. Therefore
version 20.10 was chosen.

* https://github.com/osqzss/LimeGPS
Built on top of LimeSuite (libLimeSuite.so.20.10-1), generates the GPS signal.

```
./LimeGPS -e <ephemeris file> -l <location coordinates>

# Example
./LimeGPS -e /pathTo/brdc2660.22n -l 47.202028,15.740394,100
```
